I’m so pleased to say that the sister
who wrote that letter about her anxieties
is actually here with us in the studio
to tell us more about her experience.
This is Jordan Williams
and her husband, Robert.
Thank you so much
for coming here
to share with us your battle with anxiety.
Can you elaborate on that, please?
I feel ashamed of my anxiety.
I feel like there’s something
wrong with me, and I feel guilty about that.
I feel like I’m
letting Jehovah down by feeling anxious
and that I’m even being disobedient to Jesus,
when he says: “Stop being anxious.”
But I just can’t.
Thank you for sharing that.
Robert, what do you do
to help Jordan battle this anxiety?
It’s a monster
—sometimes a very stubborn monster—
that won’t go away.
Remembering that it’s not her fault
helps me be more compassionate
and caring—listening
when she’s explaining these anxieties
that I may not completely understand.
Jordan, are there other
practical things that help you battle anxiety?
The single biggest help
is walking with Jehovah every day.
I mean that literally.
I’ll wake up in the morning super anxious.
And I can’t breathe; and my chest is tight.
And I’ll get up, and I’ll read the chapter
of the Bible that the daily text comes from.
And then I’ll go on a walk
and talk to Jehovah for an hour,
and I try to use
the model prayer as an outline.
So I’ll talk to Jehovah about his name
and how I feel so privileged
to have that name on me.
And I’ll talk to him about his Kingdom
that’s going to solve
all of these problems, including anxiety.
And I’ll talk to him about his will
and specifically what his will is for me that day.
And most of the time,
those three things
cover the things that were worrying me.
But if there is another thing,
I’ll talk to him specifically about that.
What a nice walk you have with Jehovah.
Are there other things
that help you deal and battle anxiety?
Personal study projects help a lot,
especially if they
don’t have anything to do with anxiety.
If I do a study project
on the spiritual suit of armor or the ransom,
it kind of distracts the “anxiety monster”
so that my heart can calm down,
and then these pearls of wisdom will
come from Jehovah, and they can get in.
And some of those pearls are actually
just what I need to deal with my anxiety.
Are there specific things that help you?
Yes, I made an Anxiety tab
in the Personal Study section
of my Study Bible on my tablet,
and I collect scriptures and comments
that really help with my anxiety.
For example, in 2014,
there was a regional convention talk
about Matthew chapter 6
and six specific things that combat anxiety.
And it made me think
of the twelve-step program  to overcoming addiction.
These are the six steps to overcome anxiety.
What are those six steps?
The first one is to help those in need,
and then pray a lot, to be forgiving,
not to be hypocritical,
to store up treasures in heaven,
and then to focus on spiritual matters.
So when we got back from the convention,
she took those items and she wrote them down
and put them on magnets
and put them on our refrigerator.
I try to do each one
of those six things every day.
And when I accomplish one, I’ll turn the magnet
so that I can see what I still need to work on.
So when I come
to the refrigerator in the morning,
if the magnets are turned,
we know where she’s at.
If they’re not turned,
we know we’re in trouble.
It’s a bad day.
It’s time to do something else.
Very good—nice barometer.
So, what can others do or say
that would be helpful
to those going through anxiety?
For the friends,
it’s really nice when they’re understanding
and nonjudgmental
and respect my privacy (that’s really helpful)
and when they don’t freeze me in time
or decide that ‘Oh, she’s anxious,
and this is how she’s going to be all the time.’
That’s really helpful.
I even forget that Jehovah approves of me.
So reminding me of that
—reminding me that the things
that I do to please him are successful
and maybe even reminding me
of things that I have accomplished for Jehovah
in the past.
You know, you should
tell Ron about your broken dish.
Oh, yeah.
Yes.
I’d like to know about that.
So I just found out
about this Japanese art called Kintsukuroi.
And it’s basically taking
a broken piece of pottery
and fixing it by putting it back together
with gold or silver lacquer,
and the concept is that the piece
is more beautiful for having been broken.
And that really resonates
with me because I do feel broken by anxiety.
But Jehovah gave Jesus as a ransom,
and that ransom is just pure gold;
and He can take
all the broken anxious little bits of me
and put me back together.
And maybe I’ll even be more
useful to Jehovah for having been broken.
That’s very precious.
Thank you for sharing that.
Are there other things
that help you deal with anxiety?
I’ve learned to recognize
when anxiety is clouding my thinking,
and I’ll ask him,
“Can I borrow your brain for a minute, please?”
So, what we did is we went
and purchased a whiteboard and put it in my office.
And sometimes we’ll go to the whiteboard
and write out all
the anxieties that she’s dealing with.
As we are writing them out,
sometimes we realize that those
are yesterday’s anxieties
and that they’ve been cared for,
so we can erase those from the board.
Some of them are for tomorrow,
and so we don’t want
to borrow those and bring them to today.
They’re tomorrow’s anxieties.
And some anxieties
can be grouped in little clusters,
and you can realize,
‘The root is here; let’s focus on that.’
I fight anxiety every single day.
And anxiety is constantly
changing its tactics, so I have to be adaptable.
But Jehovah never
leaves me to fight anxiety alone—ever.
I don’t understand
what I’ve done to merit all of his attention,
but I do realize that I don’t
need to understand why he loves me.
I trust him, and he never lies,
so I just need to accept it
when he shows me that love.
We appreciate
you sharing those personal feelings.
And again, we know
that Jehovah and Jesus are so proud of you.
And we know that those
who are listening in to this interview
will benefit so much
from listening to your personal expressions.
Thank you very much.